>> A world of wisdom awaits you.
You never know who
you're going to see
or what you're going
to find from feng
shui, self-empowerment,
meditation, yoga, interviews
with leaders and teachers in
the vast human potential field,
plus special news
breaking moments,
and words of inspiration.
On the cutting edge of the
move to a more positive,
harmonious world is the "World
of Wisdom," a variety program
like you have never seen before,
dedicated solely to the mind,
body, spirit connection.
The growth in human potential
happening all over the world
is not our destination,
but it is our journey.
Tune in and join us for
a "World of Wisdom,"
variety in a new way
on the wisdom channel.
>> For 24 years, the world
has become a better place
because of one man and one
woman and their program,
which is called New
Dimensions Radio.
Michael and Justine Toms
have started and completed
24 years of being on the air.
Their program is now on 250
stations in the United States,
on shortwave around the world,
and even on the Army stations.
They have blanketed the
world with their message
of spirituality and
hope and science.
We are very pleased
on the Wisdom Channel
to welcome them today.
And first, I'd like you to
meet Justine, Justine Toms.
>> It's so nice to be
here with, Corinne.
>> We are delighted
to have you here.
Now I understand that you're
not too often on the radio.
But without you, there is
no New Dimensions Radio.
>> Well, I'd like to think that.
Yes, it's true.
I'm not often on this
side of the microphones,
but I'm more behind the scenes.
Yet, I work in deep
partnership with Michael
and with a crew of other people
to put the radio program on,
to start it, to begin it, even
from the very beginning when
it wasn't a radio program.
>> We'd like to hear about that.
But first, we'd
like to introduce
Michael, Michael Toms.
>> Corinne, it's
nice to be here.
>> How does it feel to be at
the other end of an interview?
>> Well, it's a
different feeling.
>> Yeah?
>> Yes, for sure.
>> You think you're going
to be able to do it, huh?
>> I hope so.
>> 24 years of being
on all this time.
>> Maybe I've learned
something in that period.
>> Tell us a little bit
about the background.
How did it start, Michael?
>> Well, it was
an idea actually.
It didn't start with
the idea of doing radio.
It started with the idea
of bringing together
a lot of diverse ideas
and ways of looking
at the world, different
perspectives that were emerging
in the late '60s, early '70s.
And we saw the need for an
organization, an entity that
would overview all
these different things
and not take sides, as it were,
but to present the perspectives
and allow the
people to hear them
in a way that would
let them judge and make
their own decisions.
So out of that, we started
New Dimensions Foundation.
And we started
doing conferences.
A lecture series was the
first thing we did, actually,
a six part lecture series.
And during the lecture series,
someone came up to us and said,
you ought to do
this on the radio.
And so that led to our actually
doing a program on radio,
and we started in
San Francisco in 1973
doing a half hour
every other week.
And that led to a half
hour and then an hour.
And then pretty soon, we
were doing four hours a week
on Saturday night.
We had a four hour live program.
We did that for five
years, became really
an institution in the Bay Area.
Thousands of people listened.
And we cut our eye teeth
there on the radio.
It was a great
learning experience.
>> Who were some of the people
that started out with you?
You said there were
about six people.
>> Well, there was
Justine and I, of course.
And then Stephen Hill,
who later went on
to create music from
the Hearts of Space,
and now is the creator
of four record companies,
and has been doing music
in the area of what's
called space music and new
age music, that kind of thing.
Stephen was our
original engineer.
Dan Drayson, who is
still with us actually,
is the announcer
that gives the theme,
it is only through a
change of conscience
that the world will
be transformed.
And he's actually our
operations director now.
Larry Geiss was
around at the time.
He's a CPA.
He's still on our
board of directors
and gives us financial
advice from time to time.
Who else, Justine?
Who else would be on that was
part of the original group?
Will [INAUDIBLE],,
Will was my co-host
on New Dimensions for
a number of years.
And he was there
at the beginning.
He later went on
to do other things.
>> When you have
these workshops,
what were some of the early
people that came to present?
>> Oh, well, early on,
there was Ram Doss, I think.
>> And he's been
presenting for years.
>> For years and years.
And there was Werner Earhart.
There was Joe Campbell
in the early years.
In their early '70s, we started
interviewing Joseph Campbell,
who is the person who's
popularized mythology
in America.
He died, I believe, in 1983.
>> '87.
>> Oh, excuse me.
He died in 1987.
And we spent hours
and hours with him.
What an amazing person.
For me, to consider
myth, we usually
use that word thinking about
it as it's a fairy tale,
or it's not true.
A myth is not being true.
But the way Joseph
talked about it,
he talks about mythology
as being very true
on another realm and another
channel, so to speak.
So he made myth very relevant to
today's everyday world for us.
>> How did it change your life
to meet someone like Joseph
Campbell?
>> Well, it just opened
up a whole new avenue.
Mostly, that's the way
New Dimensions works.
And it mostly works
for me and for Michael.
So we do this because it
really changes our life.
And it opened up my life in
a way of looking at dreams,
even looking at the Bible
in a mythological way.
There's a historical way.
And then you can also look
at in the mythological way.
I can give an example.
In the story of Pontius
Pilate, when he went out
to seek the baby, and he
killed all the young children
at the time when he
heard about the Messiah.
And if you take that into your
life in a mythological way--
>> It was David, King David.
>> Oh, was it?
>> Sorry to interrupt you.
>> Well, anyway.
>> That's what husbands
are for, right?
They interrupt.
>> It was Herod.
>> Herod, yes.
>> We work like
this all the time.
It was Herod.
And so when you think of doing
a new project, you think,
well, you may not
want it just out there
in the world for all the
critics to get onto it.
So this is a way of
taking some information
and musing it in
a way in our lives
that it's a baby that needs
to be protected for a while
before it goes out
to the whole world
to just pronounce
bad judgments on it.
So that's one of the ways.
>> But when you think
about it really,
when you start a new project,
for anyone who in this audience
who is starting a new business,
starting a new project,
the first thing people do
is try to shoot you down.
So what you're saying
is say, oh, well, that's
not going to be.
What about this?
And what about that?
And I knew somebody who
went to that business.
It was terrible.
People do shoot you down.
So I think it's probably
very indicative of the way we
should nurture a new
project in our lives.
>> Exactly.
>> I would say when we started,
it was quite the opposite.
We set about to connect
with those people
that we wanted to
involve ourselves
with their ideas and books
and that kind of thing.
And everyone we talked to
was very supportive and very
positive and gave us
lots of good feedback
and gave us the kind
of support energy
that was really
important at that time.
And we got very little
negative feedback.
And we didn't go
to, well, we didn't
go to professionals in the
sense of people producing
conferences or
producing broadcasts
and that kind of thing.
If we had, we probably
would have gotten
a lot of negative feedback.
And we didn't do
that, fortunately.
And so we had a lot of positive
energy at the beginning.
That helped a lot.
And then as we
continued on and we
started doing
radio and doing it,
then more and more people
became even more supportive
as we continued to do it.
As we continued
over the years, one
of the things that
keeps us going
is the kind of feedback we get.
The positive feedback from
not only our listeners,
but also from the guests
who come through our studio
and experience what we do.
>> One of the people that we
had on early that we met early
on in our career was
Buckminster Fuller.
And he was the creator
of the geodesic dome.
He did the Dymaxion car.
He was an inventor and
just a wonderful person.
>> He did some of that crazy
things that people, what is it?
That house?
>> Dymaxion house, yes.
>> Yes, that's right.
And he was coming towards
the end of his career.
He was in his 70s then.
And he said that meeting us
and meeting the kind of people
that we were working with
was a evolutionary event.
And I remember
first meeting him.
He was so impressed.
He's not a large man.
He was a small man.
And I met him at a party
first off, before we actually,
oh, actually, Michael
had done the interview.
But afterwards--
>> Right after the
interview, yes.
>> And afterwards, we got
together at a little gathering.
And I remember him walking up
to me and introducing himself.
And that impressed me so
much, because who wouldn't
know who Bucky Fuller was?
We called him Bucky.
And yet, he had this humbleness
about him to introduce himself
and not to assume that
I would know who he was.
And that's when he
told me, he said
he had just done an interview
with Michael, and he said,
that was an evolutionary event.
>> And did you
know Michael then?
Were you married then?
>> We were married.
>> Oh, you were married?
>> But I just didn't happen to
be there during that particular
interview for whatever reason.
I'm usually there.
But in that particular
interview, I wasn't there.
And we've really used,
he's been a mentor for us
for through the years
that we've done our work.
Really trying to do more
with less, number one.
Another is to try
and do something
that no one else is doing.
So if somebody else is doing
it, then let them do it.
And you go figure--
>> Don't compete.
>> Yeah.
Your own unique place.
>> Let's switch back to
someone here that you never had
a chance to interview, but
has been a great source
of inspiration.
And that is Thomas Jefferson.
>> I'd love to interview
Thomas Jefferson.
That would be great.
>> What would you ask him?
>> Well, I mean, Thomas
Jefferson was the first
comprehensivist that
I came in touch with.
I mean, I was raised--
>> Now what is a
comprehensivist?
>> It's someone who thinks
about a lot of things and has
knowledge about a lot of
things, not a specialist.
In our society,
in our age, we've
become an age of specialists.
And this has caused
no end of problems
because everyone
is over specialized
and doesn't see
the whole picture.
We don't think in wholes.
We think in parts.
Jefferson thought in wholes.
So he was a whole
systems thinker.
And even in his time, he
was a whole systems thinker.
And he knew a lot
about a lot of things.
So I mean, Jefferson
was a philosopher.
He was a writer.
He was an inventor.
He was an historian.
He was an archeologist.
He was a collector of fine art.
He was he was an architect.
He built Monticello.
It's a beautiful,
beautiful building.
He created the University of
Virginia, major accomplishment.
University started with
Thomas Jefferson's library.
That's how it began because he
had such a wonderful library
of books.
>> What would you ask him
if you had him here today?
>> I would ask him probably
what he thinks we could do about
what our government has become,
how we could recreate democracy
in the United States, how we
could come back in touch with
the vision that
launched our nation,
that vision of wholeness and
democracy for everyone one,
we're all created equal,
with life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness,
how that could be true
for everyone in our society,
not just for some people,
but for everyone.
I think Jefferson
would have some really
important and relevant
things to say to us today.
>> Have any idea what they might
be based on what he's written
before?
>> Well one of the things
Jefferson wrote and said was
that every good democracy needs
a revolution every 20 years.
Now he wasn't
necessarily talking
about a violent
revolution, but he
was talking about a
revolution in thinking,
a revolution in
perspective, a revolution
in looking at the world
and looking at our society
in new and different ways,
because we do get in tracks.
We create patterns of
operating and patterns
of the ways we do things.
And so it seems
like a time, I think
Jefferson would say it's a
time to step back and reflect
on where we have come.
Yes, we've accomplished
a great deal.
But there's a lot
more to accomplish.
And there's a lot that we've
lost in the last 200 years
from our original vision.
Let's go back to
the what created
the 13 colonies and the
United States of America.
What was the compelling
motivation for that to happen?
I think that's what
Jefferson would point us to.
>> So you can, from
your studying him,
you can kind of take the
question and the answer.
I want to talk to
you more about this.
But we're going to take
just a little break,
and we'll be right back with
these fascinating guests,
Michael and Justine Toms.
Thanks for staying with us.
We are right here with
our wonderful guests
from New Dimensions Radio.
Justine Toms, thanks so much
for being with us today.
>> My pleasure.
>> And, Michael, who I think
we're on a roll here talking
about Thomas Jefferson.
>> One of my
favorite characters.
Yes, actually, the last
president I really liked.
That's not really true, but
certainly a great president,
a great individual.
>> Now you stopped by saying
before we went to break,
you said something that Thomas
Jefferson thought we ought
to have some kind of a
revolution every 20 years
of some sort.
>> He said democracy needs a
good revolution every 20 years,
a revolution every 20 years.
And I think what he
was talking about
was that we need to review
where we've come every so often.
The last real review we
had was the Civil War,
the war between the states.
And that was over 100 years ago.
And that was a review.
That was a deepening of what
our commitment was as a nation,
and where there were
some states that wanted
to leave the United States.
And so there was
a war about that.
There was a Civil War.
It was a violent war.
That was really the last time
we really looked at things.
And I think that
so I think we're
overdue to review
where we've been.
>> So we're way over 20 years?
>> Way over 20 years, yes.
Way over 20 years.
>> You've interviewed so
many different people.
Is there any one
today that you look
to who perhaps
would epitomize some
of the qualities and
judgments of Thomas Jefferson?
>> I think there are some
leaders in the world today.
I Vaclav Havel,
the Czech Republic,
I think he is very exemplary of
a modern leader in government
who embodies not just
the political spectrum,
but also embodies the
spiritual spectrum
and the historical
mythic spectrum.
I mean, he's a
poet and a writer,
and somehow now finds
himself as president
of the Czech Republic.
And whenever I've heard Havel
speak, and I've read his books,
he's very much a
visionary thinker.
And it's that kind
of person, I mean,
the people who are in
positions of power,
it seems to me like the
presidency of the United States
is really a position of
vision and leadership.
It's not a position
of having to deal
with the nitty gritty
political machinations that
go on in government.
I mean, it needs
to be above that.
The president or the
leader of any government
needs to express the
vision for the people.
And so I think Havel
is an example of that.
I think Nelson Mandela
is an expression
of that in South Africa.
He represents a people's vision
of wanting equality and wanting
to be equal.
It's that vision
that's the power.
And I think another leader of
an exiled nation, the Dalai
Lama of Tibet, who won the
Nobel Peace Prize in 1989
for his efforts on behalf
of his country, which
has being oppressed by the
Chinese for the last 40 years.
And yet, the Dalai
Lama, I've never heard
him say a bad word
about the Chinese.
I've never heard, in
fact, any of the Tibetans
say a bad word
about the Chinese.
They're incredibly
tolerant and understanding
considering they've had
their nation taken away
and over a million
Tibetans have been killed
and over 6,000
monasteries were destroyed
in the Cultural Revolution,
terrible, terrible tragedy.
And yet, out of that
tragedy called Tibet,
we have been blessed
by the wisdom that
has come out of Tibet, namely
through Tibetan Buddhism
and through the Dalai Lama and
his expression in our world.
>> Have you interviewed him?
>> Yes, I have actually.
>> How did you like that?
>> I enjoyed it very much.
>> What did you ask him?
>> It was quite a privilege,
I felt, to interview him.
Well, one of the things
I remember asking about
was his involvement
with Thomas Merton,
the Catholic Trappist monk.
Because Merton, in the
last months of his life,
visited India,
visited Dharamsala,
and had several meetings
with the Dalai Lama.
And Merton then was,
just a short time
after that, a month or so
after meeting the Dalai Lama,
was tragically killed.
He was electrocuted, a bad
electric fan in a hotel
room in Bangkok, Thailand.
And so Merton died at
53, a very young man.
Anyway, the Dalai
Lama and Merton
had a very good connection.
And so when I asked the
Dalai Lama about Merton,
his eyes lit up, and he
suddenly became very animated,
and he very much related how he
really enjoyed meeting Merton.
And he felt that there was
a real brotherly connection.
Because they met not at the
level of religious dogma,
but they met at the level
of deep spiritual experience
that both men had had.
And that was the level they
encountered one another at.
In fact, the Tibetans called
Merton a Catholic geshe.
Geshe is the highest term
of Tibetan can give another.
It's like a teacher,
a holy teacher.
And so they called Merton a
Catholic geshe, a Catholic
Lama.
And so the Dalai
Lama expressed regret
that Merton had died young
because he felt that they had
work to do together,
and there was something
that Christianity has something
to offer the Buddhists.
And the Buddhists have
something to offer Christianity.
There's east and west there.
The Buddhists have
done a lot of work
in the whole area of
meditation and understanding
the psychology of the mind.
They've developed
incredible tools
for understanding how we
think and how our mind works.
On the other hand,
Christianity has
had a great force of doing
social good in the world
and social service.
And that hasn't so much true
in Buddhism in the east.
And so here's something where
both religious traditions can
offer something to one another.
And I think the Dalai
Lama talks about that.
There's been quite a
number of conferences
in recent years of
Christians and Buddhists
meeting together to talk about
the parallels and the things
that they can learn
from one another.
>> But you must have met him.
You must have been
there, Justine.
>> Yes, I was.
>> Tell me your impressions.
When he walked in, how did
you feel, the Dalai Lama?
>> He was so gracious.
And there was no one
else in the room.
Well, no, one other
person in the room.
So it wasn't like this
big entourage with him.
And he was so gracious.
I remember after the
interview, I was so nervous.
And I brought my camera
because I wanted to take a
And Michael had he
said, now, Justine,
don't forget to use the camera.
And I was so nervous, I
forgot to use the camera.
And as soon as we were
getting up to leave,
he noticed the camera.
He said, oh, here, your camera.
Let's take, here, have
someone take a picture of us.
So he did my job for me.
I mean, that's the way he is.
And it doesn't matter if it's
with the highest heads of state
or if it's with
just the lowliest,
well, there is no lowly
person, but someone
who's not the head of state.
He's that gracious
with everyone.
He really and his
laughter is wonderful.
>> He has a wonderful
sense of humor.
>> Just wonderful.
>> I was with him one
time when somebody,
I was at a press conference
when it was just a few people,
and somebody asked him if
he still ate Chinese food.
He laughed.
He thought that was so funny.
He said, of course
he eats Chinese food.
He said, why wouldn't
he eat Chinese food?
I'm not mad at them.
And he said, if I get mad at
the Chinese, I don't sleep.
I don't have good digestion.
>> Yes.
>> So I don't get mad.
So that was triggered
by that question
does he ever eat Chinese food.
>> Well, I know we were with the
Dalai Lama in Costa Rica many
years ago.
And it was for a
conference seeking
the true meaning of peace.
And he said something like
that at this conference,
and it changed my life.
And he was talking about
how being mad at someone
or about being pessimistic.
Someone asked him the question,
well, why are you so happy?
I mean, here, your
country is decimated.
Your language, they're
trying to end your language
in your country and so forth.
And he said, well, it hurts
me to be to be pessimistic.
I feel better when
I'm optimistic.
And someone said,
well, but you may never
get your country back.
And he said, well, I don't
do it for that reason.
I do it because it's a
right and good thing to do.
And I realized,
when he said that,
that I was hedging my
bets in my own life
that I would do a project if
I felt like it would succeed.
But he was doing it because
it was right and good,
not whether it would
succeed or not.
And if every one of us
worked with what we know
is good and right, then
all of it would succeed.
>> It's been a real pleasure.
Thanks for being with us.
>> Our pleasure.
Thank you.